I made mistakes, okay?
I made mistakes on the internet and I'm paying for my mistakes.
That's all.
All right, what's been going on, Dex?
I feel like it's been a year since we spoke last.
Well, yeah, that's true.
A lot has happened.
Depends how much you want to talk about it.
It seems like maybe you don't want to talk too much about the various
controversies that you've been embroiled in.
I would not.
I would not like to talk about it.
OK, I made mistakes.
OK, I made mistakes on the internet and I'm paying for my mistakes.
That's all.
You should have taken the advice that I gave Dev that one time where you
never made a mistake and just always doubled down.
It seems like it would work out well.
Maybe second video is even more offensive.
OK, yeah, I guess for people who listen to the podcast,
there was just a little controversy.
I'm not going to go into it a little controversy over some YouTube
videos I made and I might quit YouTube forever.
But that's all and no big deal.
No, it's fun.
It is hard.
It's so hard to think of you.
I mean, you do YouTube.
It's so hard to think of video ideas.
I hate it.
I hate that part.
Yeah, I think the volume of videos you need to put out, like I
definitely have a good amount of natural ideas, but I don't have
enough for like two videos a week, I think.
I have enough for like one or two a month, maybe.
Yeah, I've been telling some like stories.
I've been doing more videos that are just like, Hey, here's things I
learned, you know, in my years at Stat Muse and just in my career.
And I feel like I've only got so many stories, you know,
going to live more life or I'm going to run out real fast.
You guys are leaving your house and making new stories.
Yeah, exactly.
It's so funny.
Like every time I consume anything now, like we just do so little,
just this season of life, the kids are young, like our entire life.
It's just making sure they're good.
But we just have no time for like watching stuff or consuming any kind of media.
But whenever I do, like we let the boys watch part of the Lego movie the other
day, my three year old still never really like set to a movie.
And you only allow them to watch part of it.
Or they were only interested in watching part of it.
My eight year old watch the whole thing later.
But the three old just can't sit there long enough.
Like he just, he gets antsy after like 30 minutes.
So we let him watch part of Lego movie and I just watched some of it with him
and realized like, oh, there's so much good humor and stuff like this.
And you watch it and you just get ideas for things you could.
It's like, if you don't consume any media, it's really hard to make interesting
content, which is why nothing I make is interesting.
Yeah, you're back.
A lot of media is from like 10 years old, I think.
Exactly.
There's no ties to the current culture at all.
Yeah, that is that is tricky.
I realized with this controversy over ahead of video that I took down, it was my fault.
I want to just say that on my podcast as well.
I shouldn't have singled out one company, one situation, not fair to anybody involved.
And I did.
And I took the video down, but there is some rise.
Oh, yeah, yeah. So what I realized with this whole disagreement that I had with this
person, it really was a lot of it, I think generational, like as the person
explained where they were coming from, as I thought where I'm coming from, there's
just a lot of misconceptions or a lot of things that I thought about
situation wrong because I was thinking from my perspective in my age bracket
and the way they view certain things, which is very different being younger than me.
So I realized like there really is something to that.
We're all interacting on the internet.
We're all like, I just assume everybody's in their 30s.
I don't know, but we're all different backgrounds, different places, different ages.
And it makes it hard, makes it hard to do stuff together on the internet.
Yeah, it is funny though, because I feel like I imagine that every person gets
to a certain age where they don't really understand what like the kids are talking
about quote unquote, but I think it like delays that somehow I like just like being
on the internet as much as I am.
I pick up on, I don't ever use like slang, but I pick up on the words and what it means.
And this always comes up with me and Liz, because Liz is a much more
normal person who doesn't spend all their time on the internet.
But whenever like new terminology comes up or a new concept comes up.
So it's like, what is that?
Like, I don't get what that is.
And then I always know.
And I'm kind of like, is it weird that I know what 18 year olds are saying?
Like, is that weird?
Like, I mean, you think I past generations wouldn't have had that.
Like before the internet, there's no way they were picking up on that stuff.
So it's this weird, it does kind of blur the lines, I guess, maybe between like the
cultures aren't so different.
If you're just extremely online, you have a pretty similar understanding of the world.
Yeah, but I get what you're saying that because it's blurred, you feel like there
isn't a difference, but they're so definitely clearly is.
Yeah, there is a difference.
Here's a question I'll pose to you and kind of talk about some of the stuff that I
learned without directly going into specifics.
How many friends do you think you have decks?
Like in the world, online, not online, maybe.
Hey, okay.
Yeah.
They're going to be able to hang a hand.
So I have, I have like old friends that I've been friends with, since I was a child.
So that's like a fairly large number.
Not that I see you interacting that often, but I would just kind of always consider
that my friends.
Yeah.
If you remove that and just think about like my adult friends or people that I
talked to day to day, probably like less than five.
Yeah, that no, that's how I feel.
I mean, I think part of this whole conversation was realizing that like, I
think younger people, I don't want to generalize here or put anybody in a box.
But I think they view like online relationships are much more like friendships
to them than maybe we view them.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, which I kind of get because even my real life friends, a lot of how we hung
out was just through like playing video games together and talking online.
And that's where all of our conversations happen.
And there was a time where we all live in the same city.
So we would always interacting together.
But now that we live in different cities, it still feels pretty much the same
because there was a huge segment of our relationship that was online.
But yeah, the origin of the friendship did begin in person.
But I do, I do kind of understand how you can have a pretty strong relationship online.
I mean, our relationship is primarily online.
Yeah, but I know other people just don't get it.
Like there was a period of time where losers did not understand how that worked,
somehow I just couldn't see my friends for like weeks and months.
And I still felt like I was close to them.
So I can see how like you take that a step further and people view
related to the people that they've never met just as strong as anything else.
And I guess like as I think about the distinction, like if we had not spent
that week at reinvent, I don't know that that really changes our friendship that much.
I think like it's the time we spend together that makes to me friendships.
If I haven't really, if I've just kind of like existed on Twitter with people,
I don't consider them friends.
I think some of them I would love to become friends with.
But like there's got there's more time involved than just like we're hanging out
online and public in a public forum.
Yeah, like you need that one-on-one thing too, where like it's totally different
when you're hanging out as a group together with everyone and you're all
interacting versus like kind of direct one-on-one stuff.
So yeah, that's it.
Yeah, but I guess it may be as different these days with the kids and their
internets.
Where are those people already?
It's so funny how quickly you become the people that you would have teased.
Your kids have friends?
Like are they at the age where they have friends?
Like I don't know how that works.
Yeah, we live on a street that has a bunch of kids.
So I mean, our neighborhood in generally is mostly young families, but our street,
it's like four houses in a row, five houses in a row where everyone has kids
around the same age.
So they all just play in each other's backyards.
Like kind of one seamless big backyard and they're always playing out there
together.
So yeah, I think like my oldest, he's eight.
He's got friends just here in the neighborhood.
That's basically it though.
I mean, he's not been out into like, he's not in school, he's homeschooled.
Yeah, so that's basically it's just our neighbors and the three-year-old.
I mean, he's friends with them.
I don't know, whatever that means when you're three, they're his friends too.
He's just the littlest of the group.
So it's different.
Yeah.
I mean, that sounds similar to my childhood.
Like just, you just go and hang out in other people's houses, yards all day and you come home.
But that also is kind of uncommon, I think now.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, we, this is the first time we've had it.
Like we, we've lived a few places since we had our now eight-year-old and he's never had this before.
So it's been really great.
We've lived in other neighborhoods where it was more older people or more.
It's not families that it's probably rare.
I don't know, we love it though.
Yeah, because I know, I know a lot of people now, like kids in our days just have a, again, I think just from a young age, it's just completely digital.
Their relationships.
Yeah, I remember seeing those charts, like how, how little people like, how little people have teenagers, how little they spend together.
Like they spend more of their time hanging out online than past generations.
And it makes sense.
Like if we were teenagers growing up right now, I'm sure we'd be in the same camp.
Like you said, we did the gaming thing.
I mean, that was, that was online.
Yeah, I mean, there's a specific image that I have in my head that I'm kind of wondering if it even exists anymore, where it would be the middle of the day.
I wouldn't really know what my friends are doing because we didn't have phones or anything.
Yeah.
And I would go on my bike around my neighborhood till I saw a pile of bikes in front of someone's house.
And then I was like, oh, that's where they are.
You know, is that kind of Steven exists anymore?
I mean, it does hear on this street, the kids read their bikes around and that they, I mean, it's a lot of like whose house are they at today, which I really liked that for them.
What's been going on with you?
I don't want to talk about my stuff.
I just, I'm going to talk about it.
Yeah, yeah, no, no.
Well, what's been going on with me?
Uh, I guess a few things.
I think I shared that, uh, that stuff yesterday about some of the progress we made on, you know, this is blowing up now or you're going to get left behind.
Everybody just go ahead.
It was kind of funny because, uh, last week, so we basically, uh, every Sunday we have a meeting.
Everyone hates whenever I say this.
We have a meeting every Sunday at eight p.m.
Yes.
How could you get angry at the weekend?
That's upset.
Everyone gets so mad that I'm doing this, uh, that I hang out with two people who I consider friends.
On the weekend.
Yeah.
At 30 minute meetings, people go, people go crazy.
I would never.
Anyway, uh, so every week we review a certain stats and the set that we've had the most data for, because it's easiest to get is a number of downloads.
So what are the number of downloads that Steve's getting every single week?
How do we do week to week?
And since January, we've kind of been focused more on marketing and trying to like get ourselves out there.
And that number, the downloads of the week to week number were like, okay, it's continuing to grow, but pretty much the same rate, it's always grown.
So we just, it kind of felt this weirdness that, okay, we clearly are being mentioned a lot more like every day when I open up Twitter.
There's like someone that's like, oh, just try to see, like it's great.
I see that that.
Yeah, that's like not something we had.
So anecdotally, we were feeling all these things and then, but it wasn't showing up in the metrics.
Um, so I was like, last week, I was like, I think it's time for us to find a new metric.
Like I don't like what the numbers are saying.
Let's find something else.
Uh, so I just was like, maybe we should look at something because the thing with the downloads is there's just so much noise in it.
Um, there's all sorts of reasons why someone would download.
SST, if we push out a lot of releases that causes that to go up just because people are updating more.
Um, so there's just a lot of noise there.
So we're like, so then this week, this Sunday, we were like looking at the numbers again.
And when we did this stupid thing, when we had the user, the weekly active users and the new users.
Yeah, line on the same chart.
Now, obviously the weekly active users way higher than the new users and the new users chart just always will kind of like flat.
Yep.
But then we're like, okay, let's put this on its own chart.
And then we chart it and we're like, oh, shit, like this is a huge difference.
And then we started, you know, just the lens of like how many new people are trying to SST.
And they were just like there, then the data reflected everything we were seeing as a classic basis.
Quote, where it's like, if anecdotes and data disagrees, probably the data that's wrong.
Like you're looking at the wrong metric.
Um, so just fine.
We're like, we didn't like our numbers.
So we looked at different numbers and I were happy.
Uh, yeah.
But that was pretty exciting.
Uh, it's the thing I was saying that thread is it is so hard to move the new user chart.
And if you look at the whole history of SSC up until January, going back two years, we pretty much have never really moved that number despite trying all kinds of things.
Uh, and if you look at a lot of different projects, even projects that like Astro that you're like, you know, you're very excited about very similar things, right?
They just have like a long period of time where it's fairly flat.
Uh, so moving the number is very hard and it was really good to see validation that the new stuff we're trying is finally moving it.
And that should be a precursor to, you know, the actual down numbers going up downstream.
So a big motivator for us this week and it's always important to find those pieces of motivation to keep you going.
Do you think that the fact that it takes so long?
Is it just a function of time that graph never moving?
Like if you're just, is it that chart where it's like, this is pointless and then it takes off?
Like, do you feel like now you've waited long enough?
Yeah, we'll see how long I mean, it's less about way because there's a clear point where it shifts and we like changed our.
Like, oh, yeah, like the things you guys have been doing, like you just being a jerk on Twitter.
That's been working very effectively.
Yeah, exactly.
Um, so it's just like there's more change of strategy than a function of time.
Yeah, I think we figured out marketing like we tried a new, because before then we were just kind of doing what everyone else does.
We're like, oh, we have a new feature.
We do a release and we make a video showing how to use the new feature and then we just try to like up the quality of that.
And every time we did that we were getting these like spikes and as we got better that the spikes were bigger, but nothing that was like sustained.
It was like spiked.
Yeah, I go back to where it was.
Um, so we're like, hey, we, I think we got to try something that's totally not like what anyone else is doing.
And that's always a gamble, but it seems to have worked out in this, in this case.
Yeah, I'm happy for you.
I did.
I did want to point out that you've now talked about having meetings on Sunday and you quoted basis in the same episode.
So you will be canceled.
I'm sorry.
I don't like the rules.
Let me get the quote in there too.
When girl is here to one.
It's important to make our features 10 times.
Hey, I've read that book, by the way.
You tried to say I haven't read that book.
I know.
I like how it got to you and you had to clarify it twice now.
Does you offend me?
It's funny.
So that's one thing.
So that's good motivating.
Um, well, always it feels like, OK, that's good, but we have like a million things to do.
It's fine.
Yeah.
I don't think I'd have it any other way.
Uh, the second thing, this is now boring technical stuff.
Yesterday, I was like, OK, let me actually dig into the whole thing with SSC and serverless and all this stuff is it's built on the concept of event driven architecture.
Uh, there's a very basic question that comes up with the vendor of an architecture.
When you admit an event and a subscriber and subscriber consumes the event and it fails.
How do you deal with that failure?
And it's like your cues tweet.
Yeah.
So I asked like on Twitter, you know, how do people do it?
Because I try and it's the thing that we do as a C usually when you're trying to do something like with your own app, how do I do with failures?
You may be able to spend an hour on it and then you'll like just pick one approach and you'll go with it.
Yeah, we had to spend like a week on problems like that and then figure out what the exact best way is.
That's what I'm doing right now for that.
And yeah, there's actually so many different ways to implement it.
Like I thought I had all the ways and we just kept discovering like new ways to do it.
And based on the replies to that thread, no one really had a slam dunk answer where it was like, oh, obviously, that's a way to do it.
So yeah, yeah, it's kind of interesting because it's such a fundamental thing, but it's so largely unsolved or not obvious at least.
Yeah, I would love for there to be definitive answers on stuff like that.
Because I always feel like there's so many like, where do you stop?
Like there's so many places you could throw a queue in between two things.
And it's like, I don't know where I'm creating just unnecessary bloat and where I'm really saving myself down the line.
It's so hard to know early on.
Yeah, so I'd love to know like a definitive guide on like a flowchart, like this is where you're going to need some durability and you better just put it there.
Yeah, because because basically every time I've done that approach of just putting cues everywhere, it's actually been good.
It's like something failed where I didn't expect it to fail or push something that broke.
And it kind of was like a kind of like a covered ass feature, like worst case ends up in the queue.
You fix it, everything retries and goes back to normal.
Yeah, so I feel very insecure not having that safety net, but there's like seven different ways you can implement it.
And the way I was doing it, I think based off the conversation I had with the people yesterday, I think I found a new way to do it maybe better.
But yeah, I was trying to figure that out.
It's just we're doing because we're building new versions of consoles and a very event driven.
So I'm kind of rethinking just for ourselves, that's the best way to do it.
And if we do discover something, we'll bake it in.
What's the you just tweeted something about something unconventional you saw?
Oh, yeah, you just told me maybe an idea.
How'd you create the Lambda warmer?
Do you not want to talk about it?
No, we can talk about it.
It's a secret sauce.
OK, so this is something and what we're going to do, which I'm trying to figure out how exactly to market this.
So obviously, so much talk about cold starts, they've gone from mattering to not mattering to mattering again, which things we go to that phase.
I do think they matter.
And there's all this like stuff about do we use Cloudflare workers?
Because they don't have cold starts to use these lighter way runtime.
But then you can't use all the stuff that you used to use as libraries don't work.
Yeah, you're doing.
Sorry, very silly avoided saying that.
I can't believe that that's become a came up again yesterday, which Theo.
I don't think they'll listen to our podcast, but if you're listening to you, I don't get the car seat thing.
It just doesn't register with me.
The car seat example is I just can't my brain is not smart enough to put together the connection.
So just so you know, something that I think Theo should give up.
Because yesterday he got into a situation where Dev had a better point than him.
And when you're getting the off by Dev, you just got to exit the game.
I love the way you treat Dev.
It's so funny to me.
He's like your little brother, and it's the best Dev is a person, by the way.
I don't know if people like that.
They're like, well, you develop it software development, Dave, the dev there.
You know, I think when people first discovered land of functions, they're like, Oh, easy.
What are called the soft code source?
Let's just have a cron job that pings the function to keep it alive, which at first feels like it works.
But actually it doesn't work because if that will keep one instance of the function alive,
but the moment there's two concurrent requests, like two users on your site, the second user gets a cold start.
So there hasn't really been an easy out of the box way to do lambda warming in a way that's cost effective.
Eventually, AWS did launch like provision concurrency.
So you can just say, OK, this function needs to have 20 instances always up.
But again, pretty expensive when you turn that on.
It kind of takes away a lot of benefits of using lambda functions in the first place.
So we're going to add a feature.
We're going to start just the next JSI and we'll bring it to Asheville, bring it to everything.
We can just say like warm, true, maybe some configuration things.
And there is a way to like send requests to a function to keep it alive and also control the number of instances and have that automatically react.
So we basically send like these bursts of requests and spin up, you know, let's say 20 instances of the function.
The next time we send that burst to keep them alive, we can actually keep track of, OK,
we spun up 20, but only three serve requests.
So it's like scaled down that so we can only keep three or four alive.
OK, we spun up three or four, but then like we had a bunch of cold starts.
So it's so we can kind of like reactively.
It's kind of like auto scaling for your lambda function in a way.
Point being you don't have to worry about how to implement another hood.
We'll improve that over time.
It's more just a flag you turn on.
Yep.
Even if you're using Prisma in a serverless function, which I've been saying about for years, even your Prisma
lambda function will you effectively won't have cold starts.
And the thing with this is it kind of then brings to the question, OK, like, do I really care about these
cloud player workers anymore?
Like if I can just have this and it works good enough, we do the math on the cost, how the cost is
compared to just using provision lambda.
It's like totally different.
It's basically a very marginal cost to implement this.
So it also brings to the question, like, do I even split up my functions?
This is better just to keep one big function more.
This is where I was going to go with this.
It's like I'm torn.
Like when snap start, when they started, that first came out as a snap start.
Yeah, and they had it for Java and they're like, eventually, maybe it'll be no JS functions.
There'll be no more idea of cold starts on your lambda functions for some increased cost or something.
It was like a mixed emotions thing for me because I feel like I was ready for some of these things
that are kind of made for the old way to just die.
Like if Prisma is just not good and serverless, then we'll just find other ways.
You know, I was kind of hoping for that future.
And now it's like, you have to think about things differently.
Like, well, I guess, sure, put express on your lambda function and just run and express that.
I don't care.
It doesn't matter anymore.
It doesn't still matter.
Sort of.
So it takes it basically takes away the argument that you need to fill up your functions
for performance reasons, but there's great observability reasons to slow split them up.
Like if your infrastructures are aware that these requests are going to do different things,
your logs are automatically split, you can set up like alerting in like a nice, nice way.
So I'm so pro splitting stuff up just to stay organized and like your infrastructure,
that give hints to your infrastructure on what things, how things work.
But it's just like a nice fail say for people that do need to do mono functions,
which I still do for things like TRPC.
So I like like, oh, yeah, having the option.
But yeah, it's kind of like, yeah, I don't really know where there's like different avenues
for the future.
There is these lighter weight runtimes become more of a thing.
If AWS doesn't support them natively, then it's kind of only available in the cloud
for ecosystem.
There's a future where no JIS continues to get better.
They're saying a library gets better.
It gets better doing situations.
There's a future where you have things like BUN come out and like some sort of
Lewis provider offers solutions, like native solutions there.
So yeah, it's unclear what the future path is.
But the reality is is there's a huge amount of people that will always use
node and continue to use node.
And there's a huge amount of code bases that are on notes.
It's going to be a long time before things shift.
So if the node ecosystem can figure it out to get to a place to seem
like 80% as good as the other stuff, it's just going to continue to win.
Because the other stuff needs to be 10 times better for, you know, it to get any adoption.
There you go, Peter Thiel quote.
And right now it is, right?
What cloud workers are like, basically no cold starts.
That is like a monumental benefit.
But if it becomes like a marginal benefit, then then yeah, the current setup will
continue to dominate.
Yeah.
So that's topic for another episode is your MPM package certification thing
you're going to make.
I want you to make that so bad because node sucks.
I hate the ecosystem so much.
I know we'll get there.
We've got a once we get a few things done here.
I think it's something I'm going to focus on, try to just improve the bar on.
The dependencies that we have available for us, they need to all look the same.
They need to all be documented the same.
They need to have the same behavior.
It's going to be really controversial.
I know as soon as I do it, people are going to be like, one, who are you to do this?
Yeah.
Two, I disagree with, you know, the 10 things that you say are required.
But I'm actually really ready for that.
Like I actually just don't care.
You live off that stuff.
You just you drink it for breakfast.
Yeah.
You just love.
Come at you.
I'm going to call it Dax's package.
Dax's favorite package.
It'll catch on eventually.
Dax is a pretty cool like DAX.
That could work.
I mean, there's so many products named that.
So oh, yeah, like dynamite.
What's that Oprah Oprah's thing, Oprah's favorite things?
You know how Oprah win free every year?
She's got like a list.
Yes, Dax's favorite things.
Yes.
OK, I like that.
Here you go with it.
Do it in print.
I feel like she has like a magazine or something.
You need to have like a DAX.
It's just like it's like like the Michelin ratings or whatever.
Like it goes in like some big magazine to like a write up on each package that makes
the top 10 or something.
That would be amazing.
Please do that.
Just give photography of the the authors and spend some time with that.
Exactly.
Uh huh.
All right.
Speaking of spending some time, we should probably spend some time not recording
this podcast.
This has been good, though.
All right.
And good.
See you Dax.
See you.
[Music]